I've been a big fan of Mercian for many
many years and in fact my career as a
cyclist in my career as a fashion
designer started and ended on Amerson so
when I had the now-famous crash when I
was 79 years of age I was on immersion
and mercy and hitter into car and broke
lots of bones and the rest as they say
is history because they then became a
fashion designer
so you know the bike Armada you made me
in 2008 in this workshop yes so what
we're doing is we're doing a project
with mr. Porter where we're doing one
more bike the same as before
I know I've always been close to Mercian
on their 60th anniversary I was
approached by the guys from Mercy in
saying you know be lovely to do a
display of Merson in your window or
something like that and I said I don't
just do that let's just do something a
bit more interesting so the idea was to
actually build a few bikes that were a
collaboration between myself and Mercian
so basically once we do this one would
be just 2 in the whole world new tune
there will they go that's going to be
all right
my name is grant Mosley I'm the owner of
mercy in cycles process begins we've got
a frame jig here at the shop where
customer comes in and we sit him on the
frame jig
take all the measurements that's
required to build that frame
like still down on Hana she send it down
to the workshop once the frame Ward has
been taken we then process the frame
order and see what tubing is required
for each individual frame each frame
builders got his own particular frame
number stamped on the bottom bracket
shell so we can recognize who has built
that frame for that customer once it
gets to the top of the pile one frame
build will then build the frame from
start to finish
the frames are made on the open hall
it's a traditional way of doing things
it works really well
a lot of people now build them on jigs
we don't subscribe to that we like to
all by taking to this face shop that
will get sprayed the customers own
requirements
and then it passed on to the customer
either fixed wheel personally and I use
it in London and so I was thinking
what's the perfect sort of non bike so
like a bike that's everything stripped
off of it so very simple very classic
lugs so very long in love and then all
black
I think the first thing to think about
with bikes today is some absolutely
fantastic bikes around but you know a
lot of them are not made in this country
anymore
most of them are made in very
lightweight materials cotton fibers all
sorts of latest materials which are
beautiful but in this homogenized world
in this world where everything is
getting so similar how wonderful to have
a bike made by Mercy in a small workshop
that was established in 1946 it's
privately owned run partly by a guy who
was a Saturday boy when he was 15 and is
now there under the company so you know
that's you can't make up stories I asked
marvelous
it's absolutely from the heart that's
the key thing
you